src/lessons/week-02/assignment-2.md, before:

# Assignment 2

**Due date: April XX**

> 📌 This is an individual project. You are expected to work independently.
>
> If you get stuck, confused, or have trouble with the project, you should use the **#help-dsa1** channel in Discord or message an instructor. Remember not to spoil the project for others - do not post code samples from your work to public spaces.

## Implementing and Analyzing Sorting Algorithms

This week we learned about how to sort collections of data using various algorithms. We also learned how to analyze the efficiency of these algorithms using big-O notation.

In this assignment, you will analyze an unnamed sorting algorithm by counting the number of operations the sorting algorithm makes. You will then take those measurements and use them to derive the big-O notations of the algorithm under different conditions. Finally, you will implement radix sort and analyze it empirically as well. 

> [Insert link to assignment here.](https://github.com/kiboschool/sort-analysis)

Remember...

- **Read** the instructions carefully
- **Plan** before you code
- **Debug** if you aren't getting the desired output
- **Attend** office hours if you need additional support
- **Ask** for help in Discord

Commit message:

Add GitHub Classroom links and update due dates

src/lessons/week-02/assignment-2.md, after:

# Assignment 2

**Due date: April 20**

> 📌 This is an individual project. You are expected to work independently.
>
> If you get stuck, confused, or have trouble with the project, you should use the **#help-dsa1** channel in Discord or message an instructor. Remember not to spoil the project for others - do not post code samples from your work to public spaces.

## Implementing and Analyzing Sorting Algorithms

This week we learned about how to sort collections of data using various algorithms. We also learned how to analyze the efficiency of these algorithms using big-O notation.

In this assignment, you will analyze an unnamed sorting algorithm by counting the number of operations the sorting algorithm makes. You will then take those measurements and use them to derive the big-O notations of the algorithm under different conditions. Finally, you will implement radix sort and analyze it empirically as well. 

[Access the assignment on GitHub Classroom](https://classroom.github.com/a/M8_3YWPg)

Remember...

- **Read** the instructions carefully
- **Plan** before you code
- **Debug** if you aren't getting the desired output
- **Attend** office hours if you need additional support
- **Ask** for help in Discord
