src/lessons/week-01/assignment-1.md, before:

# Assignment 1

**Due date: April XX**

> 📌 This is an individual project. You are expected to work independently.
>
> If you get stuck, confused, or have trouble with the project, you should use the **#help-dsa1** channel in Discord or message an instructor. Remember not to spoil the project for others - do not post code samples from your work to public spaces.

## Implementing a Set ADT 

This week we saw multiple examples of ADTs, including tuples, dictionaries, and sets. These three ADTs happen to be built into Python as language features, but we've defined our own versions to illustrate how ADTs can be implemented.

This week we also learned about the various levels of the memory hierarchy, and saw the relative speeds at which you can access data from those levels.

In this assignment, you will implement an ADT that represents a mathematical set. You will implement it in three different ways: by storing the elements in a list, storing the elements in a sorted list, and storing the elements on disk. You will also benchmark the performance of these implementations.

> [Insert link to assignment here.](https://github.com/kiboschool/set-adt)

Remember...

- **Read** the instructions carefully 
- **Plan** before you code
- **Debug** if you aren't getting the desired output
- **Attend** office hours if you need additional support
- **Ask** for help in Discord

Commit message:

Add GitHub Classroom links and update due dates

src/lessons/week-01/assignment-1.md, after:

# Assignment 1

**Due date: April 13**

> Note: the penalty for submitting this assignment during the late window is waived, meaning you can submit it up through Saturday, April 15 at 11:59 PM GMT without any late penalty.

> 📌 This is an individual project. You are expected to work independently.
>
> If you get stuck, confused, or have trouble with the project, you should use the **#help-dsa1** channel in Discord or message an instructor. Remember not to spoil the project for others - do not post code samples from your work to public spaces.

## Implementing a Set ADT 

This week we saw multiple examples of ADTs, including tuples, dictionaries, and sets. These three ADTs happen to be built into Python as language features, but we've defined our own versions to illustrate how ADTs can be implemented.

This week we also learned about the various levels of the memory hierarchy, and saw the relative speeds at which you can access data from those levels.

In this assignment, you will implement an ADT that represents a mathematical set. You will implement it in three different ways: by storing the elements in a list, storing the elements in a sorted list, and storing the elements on disk. You will also benchmark the performance of these implementations.

[Access the assignment on GitHub Classroom](https://classroom.github.com/a/m5DMPDSM)

Remember...

- **Read** the instructions carefully 
- **Plan** before you code
- **Debug** if you aren't getting the desired output
- **Attend** office hours if you need additional support
- **Ask** for help in Discord
